---
layout: post
title:  "Yes folks, I have a new job"
date:   2017-03-27 16:18:00
---

DRAFT

Good news: I am beyond thrilled to announce that two weeks from today, I will be a data scientist at Stitch Fix!

When I left WattTime in December, I had a list of things I was looking for in my next company:

1. A good-sized, well-respected data team I can hang out with and learn from
2. A clear product with clear traction
3. A sufficiently big team overall that I can observe a range of management styles in action and hone my own leadership style
4. Enough resources to do the job, spent wisely
5. A positive, transparent culture composed of happy people
6. Office on a BART line, if not bikable within the East Bay
7. Part of the Python community
8. Solving an emerging and crucial problem the solar and/or storage sectors

I was more flexible on the specific job title or duties. Platform engineer, data scientist, product manager, and engineering manager
were all on the table. I was most excited about data or PM roles, but could see myself taking any of those jobs next if it was a way
to contribute to and grow within the right company.

And Stitch Fix is that right company. Their business model is extremely straight-forward: they send you a box of clothes, you exchange
money for said clothes. From their reputation, I expected to be impressed by the overall caliber of the algorithms team,
their camaraderie and collaboration, and their smart tech choices (python, spark, et al). Throughout the interview process, they've
consistently demonstrated a dedication to creating and following through with thoughtful processes that encourage clear communication.
Plus, I was pleasantly surprised to learn that their shockingly large team of 70-80 data scientists is funded by cold hard revenue, 
not ill-advised VC bubble rounds, and use an [impressive breadth of methods to address an impressive range of business problems]
(http://algorithms-tour.stitchfix.com/).

I'll be on the merch product development team, cohabited by data scientists who use
[genetic algorithms to design garments](https://www.wsj.com/articles/next-top-fashion-designer-a-computer-1489323600)
and [Markov state models to guide inventory decisions](http://algorithms-tour.stitchfix.com/#state-machines).
(Yes folks, those are real live stochastic simulations being used outside of the Pitzer Center!)
I'll also be working closely with the folks who make business decisions and the production engineers.
I'm not exactly sure what projects I'll be starting out with, but that's partly because my role will include defining new initiatives.

Not much more I could ask for :)

Except, you know, that last criterion: staying in energy.

Let me tell you, that was a difficult choice. This is the very first career choice I've ever made that was not driven primarily by a
desire to work in the field I'd be working in, and moreover to make a significant contribution to a problem that I viewed as particularly
important within that field.

But guess what... I can tell you that there are zero companies within energy that meet all the other criteria right now.

